As 22 new players arrived to play
the ultimate game of deception...
Welcome to the Traitors Castle.
THEY CHEER
..there were surprise reunions...
Ross I've met 15 years ago.
..and lies.
I'm hiding that I'm a crime writer
and an ex-barrister.
I'm a retired
Detective Chief Inspector.
but I'm not going to tell anyone.
Judy seems lovely.
but I'm bound to say that.
considering she's my mum.
Three Traitors were selected.
but a Secret Traitor
was also chosen.
That Secret Traitor will work alone.
Each night. they will provide you
with a murder shortlist.
You can only murder
one of the people
that is on the murder shortlist.
As the prize pot started building.
Oh. my God!
It's got our names on it!
..so did the shortlist for murder.
Take a look at those coffins.
One of you will be in it tonight.
THUNDER CRACKS
Who will the Traitors murder first?
"James. Nettie or Maz.
"Signed. the Secret Traitor."
And who is the Secret Traitor?
This is The Traitors.
Who would you like to murder?
James...
BOTH:..Nettie...
ALL: ..or Maz?
The ones that are going
to get themselves banished...
Yeah. they need to stay in.
..need to stay in.
James is a hurricane.
He's got five different theories
every day. Yeah.
I know. but there's no way he can be
a Traitor if he's acting like this.
Nettie.
She said. "Yes. I know Ross."
but was really unconvincing.
so Nettie could go anyway.
I do think. when she has a theory.
she could become quite like James.
I think she could go really hard
on that theory.
Maz.
He's a bit of a cheeky chappie.
but I think he'll talk himself
into trouble. I think... Yeah.
The clear pro
to getting rid of Maz -
he might get a gathering behind him.
He's a smooth talker.
It has to be so random
that it sends them just
in every direction possible.
# It's getting down to the wire
# Jump into the flames... #
Do we agree? Let's do it.
Would you like to commit
the first murder?
I would really love
to commit the first murder!
You're so devious.
Go for it. But don't get any blood
on your cloak. I'll try.
# It's getting down to the wire
# Jump into the flames
# No time to hesitate
# Guess I always love the chase... #
It's done.
Killing them will send the right
message and keep our options open.
I can't wait
to see how this works out.
I've got a taste for this.
That first murder felt good tonight.
We've made the best of the three
that we had from the Secret Traitor.
They're completely undetected.
at least by the three of us
in the turret.
So. tomorrow morning.
I'm going to make sure
that I figure out
who that Secret Traitor is.
# Guess I always love the chase
# Coming on like a hurricane
# Coming on like a hurricane. #
Last night. the Traitors
committed their first murder.
choosing their victim from
the Secret Traitor's shortlist.
That shortlist confirmed Nettie.
James and Maz as definite Faithfuls.
But which of them
won't be coming to breakfast?
Ah. OK. First ones in.
Oh. we're the first. OK.
First here. Whoa!
Yes! Feast! Woohoo!
What a spread!
Wow. look at this.
As a Traitor in the breakfast room.
you do feel like you're just peeping
into someone else's world.
You've got to constantly remember
that you're Faithful.
I think it's probably best
just to listen and react.
I'm not going to do
any stirring of the pot.
So what have we got? Oh. my gosh.
And we've had to deal
with this extra complication
of having a Secret Traitor.
I have no idea who it is.
Oh. look at all the portraits.
I forgot about those.
Yeah. I know. Yeah.
Someone's not going to turn up.
I know. Don't.Sam. don't. Yeah.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Ooh. here we are.
Come in!
ALL: Hey!
Hey-hey!
Good morning. Morning. guys.
Morning.
Walking into the first breakfast.
I am quite nervous.
Everyone's going
to be hyper vigilant.
looking out for people acting weird.
We also have a Secret Traitor.
They know who we are.
but we don't know who they are.
which is slightly disconcerting.
So I need to keep
a really close eye on everyone.
Was anyone here not safe last night?
No. I-I was safe. I think we were
all safe. We're all safe.
We were all safe ones.
Also. you've got to remember.
because of the people that are here.
there is a Traitor
in the room right now.
Or more. Or maybe more.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Ooh. who's this? Oh. gosh.
THEY CHEER
Here he is! Reecey!
Adam!
And Fiona!
Good to see you. guys.
Going into breakfast was phenomenal.
This is very interesting game.
you know?
We've got to have our wits about us.
I'm loving it.
If Judy doesn't walk back in.
it'll blow my mind. Yeah.
Blow my mind.
I thought that last night.
I would be like.
"What the heck?" Yeah. Mm.
I was super happy. obviously.
to be at breakfast.
but in my mind.
I was somewhat worried about Mum.
I was really hoping
she would come back in.
Oh. the most intense breakfast
of my life!
KNOCK ON DOOR
Oh. God! Ooh. here we are.
Who's this?
Come in! Oh. no.
THEY CHEER
Woohoohoo!
Aw! Roller-coaster. innit?
Roller-coaster.
Ross and Nettie - they definitely
know each other. right?
Oh. for sure.
But what are the chances?
Oh. is that coffee?
So. Ross. I want to ask about...
Cos obviously you know Nettie.
Um. I know how it looks.
I'll be really honest and say.
when I initially come out the cars.
I was obviously saying hello
to everybody.
And I'd initially. honestly.
just planned to go...
..recognise her
and not say anything.
But one thing I want to assure you.
I had genuinely no idea.
I'm still sitting on the fence.
I don't necessarily know
whether you're Traitors or not.
but the connection. for me.
is just a little bit like...
It's a huge coincidence.
Yeah. Yeah. That's fair.
It's just got to be questioned.
but that's just me
being honest with you.
At the moment.
we are literally just
all grasping at straws.
It is a fact that Nettie and I
know each other.
but I've not seen her for...
I think it's like nearly 15 years.
Ultimately. this whole narrative
with Nettie is doing my head in.
I know. Yeah. picked up on that.
Oh. my gosh.
Cor. this is the sharp end now.
Yeah. Who's not coming back?
Well. so we've got
Nettie. James. Maz and Rachel.
I do have the feeling Rachel
is a Faithful.
We just don't know. No. but
I do think... I think so as well.
I hope it's not James.
I'm almost completely convinced
by Nettie.
My only suspicion of that four
was potentially Maz.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Oh! Guys. guys. guys. guys.
Here we go.
Come in! Come in. Come in.
CHEERING
How? How? What an entrance!
I don't know how.
Oh. it's Nettie. Who? Nettie.
What? I told you. I told you.
I told you.
Why the hell
have they killed Nettie?
I think Nettie's a good choice
because I don't think she's scared
to say what she thinks. No.
And if that were to turn
on any of us.
we could be in trouble.
Also. if we get rid of Nettie.
then Ross comes into play.
A lot of people
are talking about it. They are.
Our first murder is Nettie?
Yeah. Yeah.
Oh. no!
Oh...
"Dear Nettie.
"By order of the Traitors.
you have been murdered.
"Signed. the Traitors."
I'm so gutted.
I think I would have been
a really good Faithful.
Maybe I've been too good
a Faithful. too loud.
and now...now my time is done.
I don't want to cry...
..but I'm crying.
But I think they're happy tears.
just because it has been awesome.
So. yeah. good luck. Faithfuls.
SHE SNIFFS
Oh. God.
Oh. that's brutal. I'm shocked.
I am absolutely shocked.
God Almighty. I feel sick now.
Oh. bless you. Thanks. Harriet.
There you go. Cheers.
Right. er...
Hey. where's the toast? Oh...
I was honestly a bit relieved.
because
the fact that I knew Nettie
was something
for people to grasp at.
and so that was a liability for me.
Plus. the darker part -
I'm keeping a secret.
So it's honestly
like a huge weight off my shoulders.
Would anyone
sort of think about why Nettie?
Purely random. that is.
in my mind.
Oh. she was lovely - a teacher.
I trusted her.
All right.
The one thing I want to say is.
I promise you. if I was Traitor.
there is no way in the world
I killed Nettie.
As a Traitor. you might say that.
It looks weird.
Do you think Ross has been framed?
I think it's quite a clever murder.
I don't think
Ross is a Traitor.
As a psychologist.
I think Ross is under pressure
and I think he's stressed
and I think
it's making him overexplain.
and that's raising
people's suspicions.
Immediately.
the first thing he said -
"That just proves it. everybody -
"if I was a Traitor.
I wouldn't get rid of Nettie."
Did Nettie give any names out
of who it might be?
She did.
SHE GASPS
Stop it! I think
she said that before.
Judy's very quiet.
Right now. she's the only person
who's not said a word. Not talking.
There's Claudia. Oh. here she is.
She's here. James. James. James.
Good morning. everybody.
ALL:Morning.
Your first Traitors breakfast.
There are plates of salami.
an assortment of teas.
and. of course. we serve it
with a side of murder.
Poor Nettie is the first
to be killed.
Lovely Nettie.
And. as always...
PORTRAIT CLATTERS
Oh. God. Ooh. dear.
Oh. my God. it is brutal.
It's brutal. innit?
If you think that was harsh.
I'm afraid you're going
to have to get used to it.
I'd love to say. "Relax.
"enjoy the ride.
"it won't get bumpy."
But that would be a lie.
Speaking of which.
I'll see you soon at the mission.
ALL:"Bumpy"?
Oh. don't eat too much.
I'm going to stop eating. in case
we're like... Yeah. yeah. yeah.
What a roller-coaster.
I was like this all night.
Can I just say? I might be wrong.
I don't know.
but I do believe you.
She was just no threat.
I really feel it now.
You know what I mean? Yeah. yeah.
It feels like a...an actual game
now. Yeah. I know.
Like. loads of scenarios
going through your head and that.
I didn't sweat until this morning.
I couldn't switch off mentally.
cos I felt awful with Matt.
What have you got to base that on.
then? Cos obviously I like the guy.
Instantly. bang. Matt's like this.
staring into space for about
ten seconds. not looking at anyone.
I'm like. "Why?
That's the only chance you've got."
I completely agree.
My instinct was. get it off. have
a look at people - who's changed?
Why wouldn't you? That's
my instinct. Your instinct...
Yeah. but is that...?
But it might not...
..might not be everyone's...
Hey. you all right? All right?
Might not be everyone's instinct.
Yeah. There we are.
But I was saying. the thing is.
when obviously
Claudia were behind us.
I took my blindfold off. and I know
in my mind she said. "Traitor" -
she could have said. "Toilets."
I literally went like that.
and I went. "Oh!"
I put my head down
and I put my head down.
And I stayed down cos I thought...
I think I moved.
I had a very
interesting conversation with Judy
just after breakfast.
and her account
when the Traitors were selected
is she reacted
to the word "Traitors".
and then caught herself reacting
and put her head down.
And that's
what she is saying she did.
So that is super suspicious.
So I think
she is the Secret Traitor.
But what do you think? Oh. gosh.
Has Nettie's murder...?
It didn't surprise me...
That was weird.
..because I was very confident
she was a Faithful.
so I knew she would be in danger.
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Do you know what? Honestly.
And I know...
..the Ross thing.
but it would be a genius move.
You're...you're... I know. I know.
I think Judy is.
like. top of my list.
Is she? Yeah.
Last night.
before we went home -
laughing. joking. relaxed.
Yeah. Why?
I'm like. I would be shitting myself
if I was up for murder.
Everyone has. yeah. an instinct.
and you've got to go with it.
Just think it's odd. I'm just trying
to decide if I go with mine
or if I play it a bit safe
with going for Judy. because...
But then. you know.
if 15 people vote for Judy
and you go someone else and like...
Yeah. yeah. 100%.
And that's what I'm really
going to keep in mind.
I've got to think about that.
Mum is just so suspicious.
There is every possibility
that she could indeed be a Traitor.
However.
I think when it comes to Sam.
he'd said to me.
if people don't vote for Judy.
that he would be
looking at those people.
And that's like. "If you don't vote
for Judy. I'm going to look at you."
And I don't like that.
I don't like to feel threatened.
and I won't feel threatened.
How are you feeling?
God. I felt physically sick.
I feel like I haven't had much time
with you. Well. come and talk to me.
How are you feeling? Yeah. good.
Well. yeah. I was. like.
feeling really guilty
because I was part of the team...
Putting the coffin in? Yeah.
It was Rachel. And. you know. we'd
been in the car together and stuff.
Oh. thank you. Am I all right?
Yeah. yeah. Yeah. yeah. yeah.
Come join. Of course you are. Go on.
No. it's just... it's interesting
how quickly it's become emotional.
Yeah. Like. when you've been
the cause of someone else
being up for murder...
Yeah. Mm. ..it's like. "Oh. wow.
I feel... I feel really bad."
You know. you have to do what
you have to do. don't you? Yeah.
We're not taking it personal.
are we?
The younger people. I think.
are more emotional. But for me.
I've got quite broad shoulders.
and working in fostering. we have
some difficult cases at times
and there's no more pressure
than children.
But I've come into the game and.
at the end of the day.
if people have to go down.
they have to go down.
I don't feel bad about it at all.
I can't believe why she's gone.
Yeah.
You know. is it a frame of Ross?
You don't know
how the Traitors think.
And maybe the Traitors might think.
"Oh. that's a relationship
that we can't..."
Even though it's not a relationship.
Well. we don't know.
Well. we don't know. do we?
We don't know. Yeah. we only know
what they've told us. Exactly.
And is that even true? This is what
I'm saying. This is what I'm saying.
This is the game. in't it?
I've just been thinking about stuff.
right? Mm?
The Traitors are going to want to
put the spotlight on other people.
Yes. And now the spotlight's
on Ross. Yeah. Yeah. yeah. 100%.
Because everyone knew about the
connection between him and Nettie.
Yeah. yeah. So we're all focusing
on Ross.
I thought
there was something very odd
about the way he phrased it
this morning.
That he said...
In what way? What did he say?
When he said the plan
was not to recognise her.
That. I picked up on that as well.
How can you have a plan
if you don't know that
something's happening? Oh. my God.
That's a very good observation.
Oh. no. Ross! I know. I know.
RACHEL:But if I came in here
with a connection... Yeah?
..and I was a Traitor.
I would murder them straight away.
I'm really frustrated now.
because I feel
like the Traitors have had a game.
and I've played perfectly
into their hands
because I've literally blurted out.
"If I was a Traitor. there is no way
that I'd want to kill Nettie."
After I'd said that...
It's nearly like
when you say something.
you want to just squeeze it back?
But it does look suspicious.
so I'm not going to say it ain't.
Yeah. that's... You're going to have
to cover your back.
Do you think anything much of
the people that don't talk at all?
Like... I've got one...
One weird two that is rogue.
But. for me.
Hugo and Amanda are like Batman.
I've never seen those two together.
I'm glad you brung that up.
because I see. between them two.
it's a little bit more.
I saw it this morning.
They were talking to each other.
and it's a bit...
It just seemed a little...
So did you already think
Hugo and Amanda as well?
Yeah. I already thought that
before he even said it. Really?
I did. This morning at the table.
I genuinely feel like I've been
set up. You've been set up.
And if you hear anyone
spinning that narrative.
just think about why.
Ross - he has been dealt
a wrong hand. really.
But his reaction to it.
there is suspicion on him.
Obviously we're all going to be
put under pressure at some point.
but my game plan is to remain
under the radar as much as possible.
Right. what have we got in store
for us today? We're away.
With the prize pot
currently sitting at £10.000.
today's mission is a chance
for the players to come together
and add to it further.
Mission time. Whoo!
I hope you don't mind.
but I really want to go for a shield
if there is one in this mission.
Go for it.
Can we talk about any Traitors?
Cos I feel like I went like
a mad Tasmanian devil yesterday.
So I'm going to say something now.
Jade. Yeah?
I when I took my blindfold off.
um...
..you're directly at my 12 o'clock.
Yeah.
And you just seemed a bit nervous.
That's just an observation.
If you was pale... Yeah. I was...
I was in a stressful situation...
Yeah. ..with a really hot
blindfold on. Yeah.
Like.
I don't think that's fair at all.
I am currently most suspicious
of Amanda.
I do like to make sure
that I have enough evidence
before going for someone.
Not necessarily just accusing
someone of being red in the face
and then targeting them.
How did you feel
when you took your blindfold?
Yeah. how did you feel? Relieved.
You say that. and then immediately
there's a thought.
"Well. I might be murdered."
and we assume
we might be murdered that night.
So. come on. relieved is an odd one.
Oh. my God. Look at this!
What we got?
Look! Look over there. Oh.
there's some Traitors flags. What?
What is that?
Hello!
In you come.
Oh. my God. Hope
we get to sit on the throne!
As we got out the vehicles.
I saw the chairs.
which just looked incredible.
I just thought.
"Wow. what is this?"
Players.
welcome to the hills of Ardross.
Today. you need to work together
to push these three
enormous thrones
all the way to the castle.
Oh-ho-ho-ho!
You've got to be joking. right?
It is quite a while away.
Yeah. it looks it.
Let me explain.
On the way.
there are going to be three stops
where you can find and collect gold.
But only the players pushing
the thrones can search for gold.
You could find up to £9.000.
Wow. Good. good.
Now. here's where
it gets interesting.
Oh. Oh. here we go.
You see.
these aren't just any old thrones.
These are shield thrones.
Whoever is sitting on a throne
when they reach me at the castle
is protected from murder tonight.
Hidden at each gold stop.
there are one or two of these -
shield tokens.
If you manage to find one of them.
you can swap places with anybody
who is sitting on a throne.
Oh!
You have 45 minutes.
I won't be giving you time calls.
so speed really is important.
A word of warning -
this is an all-or-nothing mission.
If you don't manage
to make it in time.
then no money is added
to the prize fund.
and nobody is protected from murder.
Oh. Wow. OK.
Please decide who is going
to start this mission seated.
Does anyone want to volunteer
to start on the seat?
I would love a shield.
And you would. right?
We can swap. though. can't we?
I want to get on the chariot.
I want a shield because
I want to have an easier breakfast.
That breakfast table
is more dangerous
than a Round Table sometimes.
So as a Traitor.
I can walk in and say.
"I had a great night's sleep."
and I don't need to lie as much.
I mean. I fancy a shield.
You was up yesterday.
Immediately. my competitive
instincts kicked in.
If there's any opportunity
to get a shield. I will take it
and showcase myself
as a good Faithful.
Who wants to go on the throne?
I'd love to. Go for it. go for it.
Who are the three people
who are going to start
seated on the thrones?
Sam. Ross and James. please
come and stand by your thrones.
Congratulations. You are currently
protected from murder.
But for how long?
We will see.
Boys!
Oh. my God.
PLAYERS LAUGH
Classic. Wow.
These are my four offspring.
PLAYERS LAUGH
Enormous luck.
I'll see you at the castle.
45 minutes.
You will go
when you hear my horn.
Boys. extra cuddles later.
Lift me up.
PLAYERS LAUGH
I'll see you there.
This mission is all-or-nothing.
Whether you're a Traitor
or a Faithful. the goal is
to get £9.000.
But if we get £9.000
and don't make it in time.
we lose everything.
Take me to get some gold.
AIR HORN BLARES
Let's go! Let's go!
Well done. lads. Well done.
We set off on the mission
and I thought to myself.
"Why is the biggest
and strongest guy here
"getting up on the throne?"
Effectively. it was what seemed
like the three most desperate of us
jumping first to try
and get a shield.
I need this jumper off already.
Where is the chivalry?
Three chariots and three boys
get on to them.
That was banked.
I'll remember that.
That's it. now give it some welly!
This is insane.
Right. heavy bumps in the road.
How are you feeling. James?
Awful. actually!
THEY LAUGH
How are the haemorrhoids?
This is the worst option!
So we're not far from
the first stop now.
Stop. stop!
"Search around the orchard
"for £3.000 of gold
and shield tokens."
OK. go. go! Five minutes.
Oh. dear!
So we get to the orchard.
and we're obviously
looking for gold.
but I'm desperate to find
a shield and be protected.
Money! Money. money. money!
Great. great. great. Mate!
Watch your feet! Oh. God!
It was just barrels of stinking
fruit all over the place.
And my feet were soaking with.
like. rotten apple juice.
and it was pretty rank.
Ooh! Money! Just this one.
Just this one.
Start from the front.
start from the front.
I found a shield token!
I got super lucky today.
The first thing I found
was actually a shield token.
And there was a little
silver glint amongst rotting apples.
and I was like. "That is mine!"
Ross. I think I'll swap with you.
because you should be out there.
I'm under fire.
And after getting off the throne.
the first thing I realised
was I really need to appear to be
a good team player
and bank as much money as possible.
Got a shield token!
Can I come out now. please? Um.
James. I'm going to swap with you.
Thank God for that.
Amanda produced a silver coin
and I was like.
"Me. please! Let me out."
I've got a little sprinkling
of ADHD in my genetics.
So in that second. I'll be honest.
my game plan went out the window.
I'm like. "Tigger needs to run now."
No. actually. No. I'm not.
Yes. you are. Yes. you are.
You've committed now.
Amanda didn't know
where to put the coin token.
And I thought
that was quite suspicious.
because if you're a Faithful.
you don't think about it.
You just do it. right?
Go. go. go. Yeah?
I didn't want to do that.
Yeah. I've got one. Got it.
Yeah! Let's go! Go. go. go!
Go. go!
Everyone else!
We're smashing it. guys.
Well done. That was so quick!
Boom. boom. boom. Won.
That's £3.000.
This place is done. Move on.
Go! OK. Ready?
Oh. very successful at the orchard.
Two people found shield tokens.
Amanda and Jade
now are sitting on thrones.
But Sam has managed
to retain his seat.
He is safe from murder. for now.
Doing well. Woo!
At this point. I'm buzzing
to be still on the throne.
I think there might
have been some advantage
of being the third throne
at the back.
that people weren't looking
that way. so I was
just trying to stay
on there as long as possible.
BANG!
Bloody hell. ooh!
Just testing the suspension!
I was ahead!
Stop here! Stop.
"Search the bank of the river
for three grand of gold
"and shield tokens."
Go. go. go!
There's ropes. there's ropes.
Ropes!
Pull about ten at once if you can.
I've lived my entire life
being competitive.
I always want to win.
And I'm finding nothing.
And I'm getting stressed.
I'm cautious of time.
So you'd best believe
I was doing everything
I can to find a shield token.
Got a shield token!
Sam. I'm going to swap out
with you.
I don't really think
you're at risk of murder
at the minute. to be honest.
Fair enough.
I was pretty gutted.
but I would have done
exactly the same thing.
At such an early stage in the game.
you just want to be protected
from murder.
No! What are you doing?
Oh. hang on. I've got one!
250. So what are we missing?
One. One more bag.
We were really pushing.
We were aware
that time was running out.
And it's an all or nothing mission.
Like. we had to complete it.
Got it! You got it! Go. go. go!
Yes! Oh. my God!
Yes! Let's go!
Come on! Go!
We don't want to run out of time.
If we run out of time.
all this work that we've put in
amounts to nothing.
Bit of a hill coming up.
Heave ho!
Dig deep. dig deep!
Oh. this is the toughest part
of the route. It's all uphill.
No pain. no gain. Come on!
I'm really struggling!
Going up them hills was a nightmare.
If I go back to my Navy life.
everything is teamwork.
Everybody needs to be coordinated
to achieve the aim. to win.
No pain. no gain.
I need a minute.
Are you OK. Judy?
Do you want us to stop for you? No.
That hill. that was another level.
It just started to burn.
Stop. stop. stop. Stop!
I've been going through who I think
the Secret Traitor could be.
And I do think Judy
has been acting slightly shifty.
She is a big personality.
But this morning at breakfast.
she was very quiet.
If I had to choose someone. my money
would be on Judy at this moment.
OK. Let's go.
Go. go. go! Don't stop. baby!
Come on!
You look like you're pushing a pram!
You know what? I'm quite lucky.
I've got. like.
a good bit of forearm strength here.
So do you want to use them? Oh!
THEY LAUGH
Nearly at the stop sign! Stop.
Put it down.
Stop. stop. Down! Go!
We've got to be quick.
This is the last stop.
This is the last opportunity
where there's shield tokens.
So my primary focus
was to dethrone anyone
who's on there now.
I'm desperate for a shield.
I'll do anything to get one.
Yes!
I've got 250!
I've got 250.
Right. we've got 250 more.
Only one left. 2.750.
Right. let's go!
Let's go. go. go!
Are there no more shields?
There must be. Let's leave it.
Let's leave it.
It's not worth it. Quick! Let's go.
We've got everything with 250.
Yes. Go! One last check. Hang on.
You don't know how far we've got
to go! Yeah. it's madness.
The castle's there.
We don't know where the course is.
mate.
The type of character that I am.
it was really difficult
just to sit there and watch.
but I thought.
"Please don't find one."
Come on. guys. Let's go.
Come on! Let's go. let's go.
Come on. let's go!
Come on. Let's go. let's go.
I had a bit of a difficult
sleep last night.
just not knowing whether I'd be
on the chopping board or not.
So I was very much hoping
and praying
that no-one found the shield.
So that was music to my ears
when everyone stopped early.
There's the castle there.
to the left. To the right.
We left the forest not really
knowing how much time was left.
so we ran.
We really gave it everything.
Come on. guys!
Seven minutes left.
I can hear them. They are screaming.
Yes! Go! Go for it!
THEY WHOOP AND CHEER
Let's do it! You guys go
in the middle.
We got this! Go on. Harriet!
Go on. Harriet! Come on!
One more push! Come on. come on!
Come on. guys!
Players. well done.
You were magnificent.
You did that whole mission
in 39 minutes.
THEY CHEER
You had time to spare!
We did it! How fantastic is that?
There's life in this old girl yet.
I tell you.
You have added £8.750.
THEY CHEER
That is a massive amount of money.
And that is just amazing.
Those on the thrones at the end.
Amanda. Faraaz. Jade.
congratulations. you are protected
from murder tonight.
Please come and get your shields.
Well done. Amanda.Thanks very much.
Well done. Faraaz.Thank you.
Well done. Jade.Thank you.
Well done. guys.
Gold looks good on me. doesn't it?
Got the shield. baby.
so I'm a happy man.
Players. get into
the castle and get ready.
Because tonight
is your first Round Table.
And one of you will be losing
your seat forever.
In you go. Well done.
Come on. guys. Oh. God. Oh. God.
Well done. guys.
Oh. man! That was a good workout!
Yeah. I enjoyed that. I loved that.
How did you find that. Fiona?
You were smashing it again.
I was knackered! Were you?
Your husband's not going to
recognise you when you get home.
all this exercise you've been doing!
I'd be like Cindy Crawford!
Be on Baywatch!
Ready for Baywatch!
I will! Yeah! I will!
I've got a little red bather.
which is a thong!
THEY LAUGH
Oh. dear. Fiona!
Don't think I need to know that!
THEY LAUGH
Oh. yeah! Fuel up
for the Round Table tonight.
Oh. my God. Oh. God. Don't! Stress.
I'm still dubious about Ross.
I'm not sure about Ross.
I just have no idea.
like. why he went up
for a shield today.
Like. it just really...
Maybe he feels at... Risk?
..at risk. Yeah.
Risk of banishment. maybe.
But not risk of murder.
Like. because we're all talking
about him. I see what you mean.
Yeah. yeah. yeah.
There are lots of names
flying around the castle.
and I still don't know
who the Secret Traitor is as well.
People are looking at Ross
at the moment.
and I think he's going to come
under fire tonight. for sure.
I don't think anyone's
a Traitor here. genuinely.
I personally feel
like I played perfectly
into the Traitors' hands
at the moment.
You mean what you said
at breakfast? Yes.
I didn't initially realise
how really me being linked
to Nettie was a problem for me.
How are you feeling
now she's gone?
I can't even be sad properly.
because. you know.
you can't do a cry.
Yeah. Everyone's like.
"Why are you so sad?"
I'd say personally. as a Faithful.
I wouldn't fake anything.
People are on edge.
and there's some scatter-gun
approach being taken.
There was suspicion on Ross.
and I remembered what
Sun Tzu says in The Art Of War.
"When your enemies are making
a mistake. don't interrupt them."
This is working.
It's going very well.
I've been having some
troubling conversations.
like. this morning.
During the Traitor Challenge.
James was sitting in the chair
in front of me.
Yeah. Amanda comes up with a coin.
Yeah.
James is like. "Come here.
come here. come here."
And he's like. "Oh."
Then are you are suspicious
of Amanda? Yeah.
It was. it was the "Oh. I'll go swap
with James."
"Actually Jade is behind.
let me go."
And then James was like. "No."
So she...
You're saying Amanda
thinks you're a Traitor?
I think she's out to get me
for whatever reason.
People often underestimate me.
I think gaming
has made me quite strategic
and super analytical.
If I feel that something
isn't lining up with something
I maybe heard before or seen before.
then I will be straight on that.
I'm going to. like.
just stew on it for now.
I am most worried about Amanda.
She is very. very dangerous
in this game.
She's so smart.
I know who I want to murder.
but having that narrowed down.
it's not ideal.
I need to figure out
who the Secret Traitor is.
and hunt them down.
Otherwise. the three of us
are in trouble.
I think there's
two family connections.
Do you? I do. Go on.
Reece isn't too dissimilar
to you. is he?
THEY LAUGH
Yeah. he's my son!
Jade mentioned your name
in the kitchen.
Of course she did.
Did you know that?
No. no. But of course she did.
Because she said...
Cos I'm going to mention
her name tonight.
She said that Amanda got the shield.
and then just. like. paused.
as if. she says.
she's coming for me.
Just so you know.
that's in her pocket.
Rachel. she's actually
in my inner circle.
She's a very clever girl.
My current strategy
is to exude being a Faithful.
So tonight's a big night
to rally the troops.
You did great. Judy. Did I?
You did fantastic.
Thank you. Good for you. Oh. gosh.
This lamb shank looks amazing.
It's so soft as well. Mm.
Mm-hm. Nice? BOTH: Mm!
Cooked well? So soft. Good.
Well. tonight. Tonight's the night.
Oh. God. God. Here she is.
Hi. Amanda. All right?Yeah.
Here you are. do you
want one of these? You'll
sleep tonight. won't you?
Yeah. I hope so.
And I thought it was
very interesting at beginning.
You know when they said.
"Who wants to sit on it?"
Sam sat straight on it.
didn't bat an eyelid.
Yeah.Sam's been really... Pushing.
Me?! He's pushing a narrative...
Calm down. Don't get...
I know if Roxy has got
something on her mind.
I think it's cos Sam
had got round
a few people putting my name about.
and we're very strong. so
He said. "Well. I'll be looking
at people who don't vote
for Judy and thinking.
"Are they Traitors or not?" Naughty.
He's kept his distance
from me today.
Has he? Yeah.
If he throws it out there.
everybody might jump on it.
I don't
want to give Sam's thing legs.
because I honestly feel
like he's playing
the possible good game as a Traitor.
Where is your head at?
Because I haven't even...
Like. I've said. "Hi."
very briefly. Yeah.
well. I mean. I've been pretty...
I think I'm putting myself
in a bit of trouble
because I've been pretty open
about it. I think. You've been
very vocal. Yeah. Mm-hm.
Um. so I think
Judy's in real trouble tonight.
I-I can't see that.
Oh. Rachel. you're. like.
the only person. I think!
Maybe because I've spent
a lot of time with her.
Yeah. Look. I mean. I'm not...
I'm not here trying to sway people's
opinion. Yeah. I'm just going off
what I've seen.
The Secret Traitor.
they're working on their own
and surely they would
need to be bold.
They're going to need to have guts.
I think Sam's commanding
a little bit of a...
..a stage at the minute.
It's how he speaks to people.
He's very. very articulate.
Before we got on the train.
she was bubbly. you know...
..outspoken.
bantering. laughing.
And I know she is now.
but I think that's only because
she's. like. settled into it a bit
and she's met her other Traitors.
Ooh!
Hiya. And. yeah... Hiya!
So I reckon it could be
a bit tricky.
but. like. the Round Table is
basically for questions. isn't it?
Like. I think everyone should go
in there expecting...
Are you avoiding me today. Sam? No.
Aren't you?
Why? Why did you say that?
Oh. I've not spoken much today.
I think you're avoiding me.
You were carrying me on the throne.
I know. I think you're avoiding me
for some reason.
But I'm ready for you.
Absolutely. Ready.
I'm happy to talk to you.
Bring it on. Yeah? Mm-hm. Mm-hm.
OK. Yeah. definitely.
All right.
There you go. I'm happy to.
Happy to.
It's time for the first Round Table.
This is where diplomacy rules.
and the Faithful can take control of
the game.
Will they catch a Traitor?
Will they uncloak
the Secret Traitor?
Or will an innocent Faithful be
banished from the castle forever?
Either way.
there is everything to play for.
# Sound the alarm. #
And now I know
that my name's been going round
a bit.
whoever's coming for me. be ready
because you don't mess with Judy.
At tonight's Round Table.
I think it's really important
for me to be looking at
the Faithfuls
for any Traitor-like behaviours.
to find out
who that Secret Traitor might be.
There is no way I want
to be banished.
I pray and hope I don't.
but I am all over the place.
# This is how it all starts. #
Players.
welcome to your first banishment at
the Round Table.
This is the sacred place
where Traitors are hunted
but Faithful often fall in
the crossfire.
You were amazing today.
You added £8.750 to the prize fund.
That means the current total is
a mammoth
£18.750.
You work so well
as a team out there...
..so how will you do in here?
I'm going to tell you
how this works.
There will be a discussion
and then a vote.
Whoever receives the most votes
will be banished from the castle.
They will then reveal
if they are a Faithful or a Traitor.
For the first time then. players.
the floor is yours.
HEARTBEAT THROBS
I'm happy to share my thoughts
because I've been pretty vocal
with my opinions with everyone.
and I've openly said that doing this
does put me at risk
of being potentially murdered.
Ditto. But I would rather do
that and get names out there.
which I'm not just going
off feelings.
I'm going off a real change
in character from the woman
that I saw at the station.
on the platform full of life.
full of energy.
cracking jokes the whole time to
after that Round Table
being completely withdrawn.
The thing for me is.
when we obviously came to
the first Round Table.
as soon as I took my mask off.
I turned my head and I thought.
"Oh. no."
So I put my head down
because I thought...
Well. she said. "Traitors".
and you turned. Yeah.
Well. you know what? To be fair.
I were that nervous.
I realised I did that... Mm-hm.
..so I put my head down.
But. I mean.
it's up to you guys how you feel.
But I'm telling you. genuinely.
I'm 100% Faithful.
I'm just me. I don't change.
Sorry. can I just say
really quickly?
Because I know you've probably got
something to say here. Sam.
We had a conversation this morning.
and I think it's really great that
you're vocal and giving
your theories to the group.
but it made me a little bit nervous.
I felt that you were kind of saying
if me or potentially others -
not in these exact words.
but this was what I got from it -
don't go for Judy. then you would be
suspicious of those people.
Now everyone has come in
to play their own game
and people can go with their own
instincts. just like you are.
I never said that I'd expect
everyone to go with what I say.
You didn't say. "I would expect."
But you were like.
"If people don't maybe
vote for Judy.
"then I'll be looking at them
and I'd be a bit suspicious."
So I just want to know.
like. what that means.
I've spoken to a number of people
here and whether they want
to speak up or not. Pretty much
everybody here about one person.
My only reasoning behind that is
because a lot of people have.
without me saying Judy's name.
have said Judy themselves
as a suspicion.
Yeah. OK. So therefore
if a lot of people vote
for one person
and then others don't.
that might look a bit weird.
You. in my eyes. haven't changed.
No. I haven't. At all.
And I never would.
That's not me.
I'm just Jude. That's it. And
I've just... I just don't see it.
Just say to myself. "It's a game."
We're here to enjoy yourself.
I'm 100% Faithful.
and you will all see.
Judy. I'd like to ask.
who do you think is a Traitor?
I was swaying towards Sam and Jade
as well. OK.
And why?
When obviously we all took
those masks off.
Jade was just...
She looked quite shocked.
Can I just say as well... Sorry.
I saw exactly the same.
Adding to that.
something happened today
that I was told about.
You mentioned to a couple of people
that I did something "odd"
at the mission.
I found one of the coins and I ran
to the first cart and it was James.
Couldn't wait to get out.
if I'm honest. Yeah.
Exactly. So I ran to the cart.
I was just about to sort of
say something and put it in.
and then I thought.
no. because you had a tough night
the night before.
I did. So I went to go to
the next car
and you screamed at me.
"Come back here!"
I was like a coiled spring.
I tell you.
"I want it in!" Yeah.
And that's the weird thing.
What confuses me is
you were yards away.
You MUST have heard him.
He shouted really loud.
But then you felt you had to go on
the defensive because...
Because I'd said to you
in the Land Rover
that you just looked scared.
So taking the blindfolds off.
I was incredibly hot and it was
an incredibly anxiety-inducing
situation to be in.
I-I cannot control
how my body reacts.
The second thing was I just wanted
to get different viewpoints.
because it's very easy for us
to sit and hyper fixate on things.
and I can... I can do that
quite well.
Because all these rumours are
going around about me.
I wanted to get a shield
because I wanted to feel protected
as a Faithful.
Can I...? There was a moment
after breakfast today.
Ross threw out two names and then.
conveniently.
Adam brought up the same names
Ross had brought up.
But for me it looked very convenient
that he'd said two names.
and within two minutes
you were like.
"Yeah. I also
think the same two people."
And I was like. "That's put
the seed of doubt in my head."
And I apologise I'm whacking it
on you. No. it's fine.
It's fine. But I did
literally in that moment...
This is what this table's for.
This actually genuinely
wasn't an accusal. And the two names
I'd mentioned was Amanda and Hugo.
Because I hadn't
seen you guys together.
and you guys have apparently
got on so well.
I just... My rationale was just.
"Where's that rapport came from?"
When Ross brung it up.
I just... He said that.
"I haven't seen them together."
I said. "Well. I saw them
at breakfast this morning
"and they looked a little bit...
"..too close."
but that's all it was.
It's lovely that you think.
you know.
we're together or whatever.
but we're not.
Um...
..I'm a lesbian.
So I'm not sure I'm your type.
No. you're not my sort.
LAUGHTER
So you think they're both Faithfuls?
I think they're both Faithfuls.
But I just didn't know
if there was a link there.
But I was going to watch it from
a distance.
All right. Do you know
what I'm saying?
Can I throw another name in the mix?
Um...
I am very suspicious of you.
Ooh. Please.
I think Nettie being murdered
is very obvious
points to you.
but that's why it works.
Yeah. No. um. to be fair to you.
I was expecting it.
I think I was amazingly
set up this morning.
It's not something I wanted
to bring up. but I thought
I was perfectly set up.
The fact my friend's gone
and hasn't come in. honestly?
I'm feeling a bit
relieved...because...
Relieved that she got
murdered? Guiltily. yeah.
Because it's also
my unfair advantage gone.
If I was a Traitor. there's
no way I'd get rid of Nettie.
because ultimately. yeah.
it was an unfair advantage.
But surely there's a...
There would have been a...
There would have been a tactic
to keep you both in.
because then maybe we would have
got rid of one of you.
If I was a Traitor.
I would have kept you together
because there's
so much suspicion around you.
One of you would have gone today.
I think. Yeah. so. I think...
I think a lot of people dismiss.
"It's so obvious. it couldn't be."
But I think it could be.
And it could be a clever
double bluff. That's my opinion.
A double? It could be. Yeah. I mean.
that's obviously hard to hear.
I'm a Faithful. It's a lot.
But I think it's also just
worth considering
that Nettie's murder...
..it had the advantage
of throwing suspicion on Ross.
But also.
Nettie was one of the people
who was the most vocal
in raising accusations against Judy.
So... Even though
I'd not spoke to her.
..one way or the other.
there could be something
to be read into it.
Players...
..the time for talk is over.
Please write down the person
you believe is a Traitor.
Amanda.
we're going to start with you.
Who do you believe is a Traitor
and why?
I don't think it will come
as any surprise.
I voted for you. Jade.
James. who do you believe
is a Traitor and why?
I'm afraid I've gone for Judy.
I listened to the group.
Judy?
I've gone for Sam.
And I think you're
playing a great game.
Whatever you did.
and spreading it out. it's amazing.
Sam?
So I have written Judy's name down.
It's based on
your change in demeanour.
That's why I've chosen you.
Hugo?
Judy.
You've got an amazing.
positive energy.
You're great. I'm sorry.
Matthew?
Judy. Sorry.
I came in
and I wanted to just listen to
the evidence that was presented.
and yours was the most
compelling case.
Jesse?
J...Judy.
I really apologise.
Don't you apologise at all.
Reece.
who do you believe is a Traitor?
Um. so I've gone with you. Adam.
So. a vote count.
Five for Judy...
..one for Jade.
one for Sam.
and one for Adam.
Harriet. who do you believe
is a Traitor and why?
Judy.
I really do hope that it's you
and that I haven't fallen into
the trap of herd mentality.
Rachel?
So I believe Ross is the Traitor.
Ross?
I...I think Judy is the Traitor.
Jade?
Judy. I'm sorry.
Judy. I went with my gut.
It wasn't because of others.
Judy. I sincerely hope I'm right.
I went for Judy. I'm so sorry.
Faraaz?
I just think that initial deflation
after the Traitors pick.
That's what I'm going off. really.
Roxy?
I've come here to play my game
and follow my instinct.
by being true to myself.
So I'm sorry. James.
Ben?
Judy.
Stephen?
HE SIGHS
Judy.
I've had to put your name down.
Ellie?
Judy.
And for the final vote. Jack?
you have received the most votes.
Please come up here and join me.
It's all right. Thank you.
She better be a Traitor.
Judy.
you have received the most votes.
and you are banished
from the castle.
Please now reveal. are you a Traitor
or are you a Faithful?
I'd just like to say.
you've been absolutely amazing.
I've had an absolute blast.
And I'm just me.
I am...
..a Faithful.
THEY ALL GROAN
I'm sorry. but...
Of course she is.
It's no-one's fault. but...
What are we doing?
Stop going with the herd
mentality. guys. Stop it!
It's nobody's fault.
but people need to play their
own game... Stop sowing seeds.
..and actually stick with what
they want to do. Yes. Exactly.
I genuinely thought...
I thought she was... It's not
sowing seeds. People thought that.
Players.
first Round Table. and you
banished an innocent Faithful.
As Judy said.
she was just being herself.
ROXY GROANS
What a stunning win
for the Traitors.
They're laughing at us.
And they're on a roll.
cos they get to murder again
tonight.
I will see most of you. then.
at breakfast.
Goodnight.
I appreciate a herd of people
went for Judy tonight. right?
Yeah. But I don't think
it's fair to assume
that none of these people
came to their own decision
about why they made that choice.
SEVERAL OTHERS:Yeah.
I think there are s...
..some people who've been swayed.
perhaps. by others. That's all
I'm saying. Not everybody.
Everyone has their own opinions.
But this wouldn't have happened
if people weren't swayed.
Oh...
It's crazy because
I really. really feel
that Sam played quite a pivotal role
in Mum's banishment.
And if Sam is a Faithful.
he's done the Traitors
a favour tonight.
Mum's game might be over.
It was cut short.
but mine is just starting
and it's going to spur me on.
# We'll never get away. #
Are you all right after that? I'm
fine. But do you know what it is?
I really liked her.
SHE CHUCKLES
And I thought.
I'm putting my neck on the line.
looking like I might be a Traitor
trying to protect.
if she is a Traitor.
No. I get that.
Well. that feels quite shit
when you get it wrong.
I know. I feel awful.
VOICEOVER:I am so relieved.
So far. so good.
My name wasn't brought up
at the Round Table tonight.
But Judy was a Faithful.
which means that
the Secret Traitor is still here.
and definitely pulling the wool
over my eyes at the moment.
Hi. guys. Can I come in?
Come in. Come in.
Do you know what. Hugo?
I think you're probably
one of the last people
I've not actually spoken to.
We haven't had a good chat. have we?
We haven't had a good. proper
sit-down.
No. we haven't. We should do it.
Have a proper sit-down.
But I just don't know
what the loose ends are.
Ellie? Any idea?
What. who to tie up?
If we just go. like blank page.
where do we start again?
You're a barrister. right?
A coffee barista!
Keep getting it wrong.
James. can I ask you...?
Yeah. Please do.
..who are you thinking now?
Um. Matt's still up there for me.
Who else? After tonight. Ross.
As soon as she announced.
"I'm a Faithful."
he was the first one. he went.
"Oh. no!"
I'm kind of gutted. in a way.
I should have stuck with my gut
and went for Ross.
because he was my number one.
But I listened to everybody else.
and I shouldn't have done it.
This game is so frustrating.
If any one of you are a Traitor
and he's a Traitor.
I'm not saying yous are.
but you'll get it back to him
tonight and I'll be out tomorrow!
I'll be murdered tonight.
CLOCK CHIMES
Genuinely. I hope
I see yous all tomorrow. yeah?
Yeah. I hope I sees yous
all tomorrow.
Fingers crossed for tomorrow. yeah?
Don't kill me if any of you are
Traitors. Please don't.
The castle clock has chimed.
which means the Faithful
must return to their beds.
But for the Traitors.
the night has only just begun.
They once again have to murder from
the Secret Traitor's shortlist.
But who is choosing
their potential victims?
# This is the world we made
# This is the world we made. #
THEY LAUGH
What a night!
That was a good one for us.
That was fantastic.
There were so many names
thrown around tonight.
There was no mention
of any of us being a Traitor.
I was a little bit anxious
going into that first Round Table.
because you never know what's
being said in the different groups.
But we're good. Yeah.
Who do we think
the Secret Traitor is?
Oh...
Someone like Ellie.
Ellie was on the tip of my lips.
She can't look at me properly.
She's very reserved.
and her eye contact has changed
in the last couple of days.
so I have started to look
at her slightly differently.
Very. very bright. very articulate
and says nothing.
And what does that say?
I have another suggestion.
Fiona.
That thought has crossed my mind
a few times already.
She is walking around
with a certain confidence.
I'm just looking at her.
and I'm thinking. you would be...
..sweet but a psycho!
Yes. Like. that would be brilliant.
I wonder if tonight's shortlist
will give us any further clues.
Shall we see who it is?
Let's look. OK.
# Are you gonna
# Pull that trigger? #
"Dear Traitors.
"you must murder one of
the following Faithful tonight."
Ben...
..Reece...
..or Maz.
So. who insists on killing Maz?
Who do we think would come up
with that shortlist?
Three males.
That's a female has done that.
That is a woman
who has put those on there.
Oh. my head's wrecked.
Ooh. I think they're playing
a blinder.
It's someone who's not obvious.
They're totally under the radar.
Who is the Secret Traitor?
I'm kind of a little bit excited.
thinking they might be on our side.
but also a little bit nervous.
cos you don't know where
their head's at.
You don't know where
their head's at. No.
# Pull that trigger
# Trigger. trigger. trigger. #